1. What chemical found in TNT is also found in oil, particularly Borneo crude? 
Toloul
2. What is the term for the vented or drained off fluids from a pressured well? 
Bleed Off
3. Name Five types of Packers used in the oil industry? 
Compression set packer, drillable packer, hook-wall packer, inflatable packer, hydraulic packer
4. This volume of gas has been separated from produced water 
Blue gas
5. What is a raised metal lip that is around a perforation? 
Burr
6. what is the area of the rock adjacent to the perforation tunnel where permeability may be 50% less than initial, undamaged permeability? 
Crush Zone
7. This term describes the difference between average reservoir pressure and the flowing bottom hole pressure. 
Drawdown
8. This type of drawdown is the pressure differential from the formation near the wellbore to the wellbore 
Completion Drawdown
9. This is a rubber or plastic material used as a seal 
Elastomer
10. In the USA, this type of well is defined as producing 10 BOE/d or less  
Stripper well
11. Describe what a z factor is also give the equation for it. 
The "z" factor is the ratio of the volume actually occupied by a gas at a given pressure and temperature to the volume the gas would occupy at the same pressure and temperature if it behaved like an ideal gas. Z= VACTUAL /VIDEAL
12. What is the equation for gas specific gravity? 
Yg = Pg/P-air
13. What do the variables represent in the gas specific gravity equation? 
Pg is the density of the gas, and P-air is the density of dry air.
14. What would the pressure be in a black oil reservoir at discovery? 
Either above the bubble point or equal to the bubble point pressure
15. What are the two types of chemical bonds? 
Covalent and ionic bonds
16. What is a vessel used to treat or separate water-oil emulsions? 
Heater Treater
17. In offshore operations, what does FPSO stand for? 
Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading Vessel
18. What is vessel used to separate gas oil and water after the mixture is produced from the well? 
Separator
19. What is the unused world oil production capacity called? 
Spare Capacity
20. What type of well typically produces a few barrels of oil per day and accounted for 15 percent of total U.S. production in 1986? 
Stripper wells
21. What is the average world's water cut associated with oil production? 
25%
22. Who is considered the world leader in deep-offshore production? 
Brazil's Petrobras.
23. Wildcatter's used to taste and classify oils as sweet, medium sour, and sour based on what property of oil? 
Sulphur Content.
24. What term is used to define a higher than expected production from existing oilfields possible due to improved management, adoption of more sophisticated and costly technologies or previous miscalculation? 
Production Creeping
25. What are the two possible ways single phase flow can be characterized? 
Laminar or Turbulent
26. The velocity profile is parabolic for what type of flow? 
Laminar
27. Assuming uniform pipe diameters, what will be the pressure drop due to kinetic energy for an incompressible fluid 
Zero
28. When calculating relative pipe roughness, Є=k/d, what is k? 
Length of the protrusions on the pipe wall.
29. In two phase flow what is hold up? 
When the lighter phase flows faster than the denser phase.
30. What is bubble flow? 
Dispersed bubbles of gas in a continuous liquid phase.
31. What is slug flow? 
At higher gas rates, the bubbles coalesce into larger bubbles, called Taylor bubbles, that eventually fill the entire pipe cross section. Between the large gas bubbles are slugs of liquid that contain smaller bubbles of gas entrained in the liquid.
32. What is churn flow? 
With a further increase in gas rate, the larger gas bubbles become unstable and collapse, resulting in churn flow, a highly turbulent flow pattern with both phases dispersed. Churn flow is characterized by oscillatory, up and down motions of the liquid.
33. What is annular flow? 
At higher gas rates, gas becomes the continuous phase, with liquid flowing in an annulus coating the surface of the pipe and with liquid droplets entrained in the gas phase.
34. Which two phase pressure gradient correlation can be used for any pipe inclination and flow direction? 
Beggs and Brill
35. Why for two phase flow would an increase in the imposed well head pressure result in a proportionately larger increase in the corresponding bottom hole pressure? 
Because gas would be re-dissolved, increasing the density of the fluid in the wellbore.
36. What is the concept of a gas lift? 
Increase gas liquid ratio resulting in a reduction to bottomhole pressure
37. There exists a limiting gas liquid ratio, where the decrease in hydrostatic pressure will be offset by what? 
Increase in frictional pressure drop
38. The intersection of the IPR curve and VLP curve gives what result? 
Well deliverability
39. The integration of flow rate versus time results in what? 
Cumulative Production
40. The fluid recover from an under saturated oil reservoir depends entirely on what? 
The fluid expansion as a result of underground withdrawal and associated pressure reduction.
41. In Havlena and Odehs application of the material balance what is m? 
m= vol of gas cap/vol of oil
42. Graphing F vs Eo (underground withdrawals vs Oil Expansion) would result in a slope of what, for saturated reservoirs and with no gas cap 
Slope of N, original oil in place
43. Which type of reservoir drive system is happening when a reservoir contains no gas cap but rapidly passes below the bubble point pressure after production commences  
Solution gas drive
44. With two phase flow, why does the flow regime not affect the pressure drop in horizontal flow as it does in vertical flow? 
No potential energy contribution to the pressure drop in horizontal flow
45. Brill and Beggs described three flow regimes for horizontal gas-liquid flow, what are they?
Segregated flow, intermittent flow, and distributive flow
46. What is segregated flow? 
The two phases are for the most part separate.
47. What is intermittent flow? 
Gas and liquid phase alternates
48. What is distributive flow? 
One phase is dispersed in the other phase.
49. What are the three types of segregated flow? 
Stratified, Wavy and annular.
50. What are the two types of intermittent flow? 
Slug and Plug.
51. What are the two types of distributive flow? 
Bubble and mist.
52. How are the effects of valves and fittings included when calculating the pressure drop? 
Adding the equivalent length to the actual length
53. What is critical flow through a choke? 
When the fluid is accelerated enough to reach sonic velocity in the throat of the choke
54. What is the device inside the choke that restricts flow called? 
The bean
55. Why most a reservoir sample be taken before production in new wells? 
Once the reservoir drops below bubble point it is no longer possible to acquire a fluid sample from which the hydrocarbon composition can be determined.
56. Interpretation of a stabilized well test yields what information? 
Average reservoir pressure in the well drainage area, and the well productivity or injectivity index.
57. When can a stabilized well test be conducted? 
During steady state flow or pseudo steady state flow
58. How is the productivity index calculated? 
Well flow rate q, divided by the drop in pressure from the average reservoir pressure, p, to the flowing wellbore pressure pwf.
59. If the productivity of a well is low due to low permeability, how is this overcome?
Hydraulic fracturing
60. What is a drawdown test? 
Opening a well to flow after a shut in.
61. What is caused by movement, expansion, and/or compression of wellbore fluids in response to a pressure change? 
Wellbore storage
62. On a log log plot of flow rate vs time, what characteristic describes storage? 
A hump in the pressure derivative
63. Why is the use of down hole shut-in recommended in pressure build up tests? 
To avoid loss of early time data that may help to characterize damage and to avoid error in the test interpretation.
64. What are derivative responses that are commonly found and readily recognized in transient test data termed? 
Flow regimes
65. During wellbore storage flow regime, what is the slope of the pressure derivative. 
One
66. For a finite conductivity vertical fracture flow regime (bilinear flow), the pressure change and derivate are offset by a factor of what? 
Four
67. For an infinite conductivity vertical fracture flow (linear flow) flow regime, what is the slope of the pressure change? 
0.5
68. The partial penetration (spherical flow regime) occurs between well bore storage and what other flow regime 
Infinite acting radial flow
69. During infinite acting radial flow, what is the value of the pressure derivative slope? 
Zero
70. During pseudo steady state flow, the slope of the pressure change is 1 during which type of well test? 
Drawdown
71. For a late time, drawdown, the pressure change and pressure derivative are overlain for what flow regime? 
Pseudo steady state
72. Which two flow regimes cannot be separately distinguished in pressure build up data?
Pseudo steady state and steady state
73. What is the oilfield unit for Wellbore storage, C? 
bbl/psi
74. This pressure is defined as the non-wet phase pressure minus wetting phase pressure in the interface between two immiscible fluids 
Capillary Pressure
75. This type of permeability is a measure of the conductance of a porous medium for one fluid phase when the medium is saturated with more than one fluid. What is the name of this type of permeability? 
Effective permeability
76. In the majority of sedimentary basins, the overburden pressure increases linearly with depth. In psi/ft, what is the typical value of this gradient? 
1 psi/ft
77. What is the term for the ratio of the resistivity of a rock filled with water to the resistivity of that water? 
Formation factor
78. Contact angle is used to measure the wettability, the solid is called water-wet if the contact angle is below ___ and is oil-wet if the contact angle is more than ___? 
90, 90
79. What is kro and how is it defined? Oil relative permeability? 
kro = ko/k
80. What is the term for a formation with constant permeability and no high or low 'streaks'?
Homogeneous
81. What is the term for a gas that is a vapour in the reservoir and has no liquid dropout because separator conditions are still in the vapour region of the phase diagram? 
Dry gas
82. Real gases have a factor that is used to relate the gas to ideal conditions, what is the name of this factor? 
Gas deviation, or 'z' factor
83. If the contact angle between oil and water of a liquid on a core sample is less than 90°, what is the wetting phase? 
Water
84. What is the term for the equilibrium point between the sublimation line, the melting point line, and the vapour pressure line? 
The triple point
85. Name the five reservoir fluids? 
Black oil, volatile oil, retrograde gas, wet gas, and dry gas
86. The motion of atoms and molecules in fluids due to the temperature of a fluid appears to be random but is described by the relationships derived by the man for which this motion is named. What is the name of this motion? 
Brownian motion
87. The amount of oil that can be produced from a reservoir under current economic conditions is said to be what? 
Recoverable oil
88. What is the total amount of oil located in the subsurface of a reservoir of an oil field? 
Oil in place
89. Sonic Log, Density log and Neutron logs are all what type of logs in Well Logging? 
Porosity Logs
90. What is the Material Balance Equation? 
Production = Expansion + Influx + Injection
91. What is the linear flow form of Darcy's Law? 
q=ka(p1-p2)/µL
92. What is the conversion factor to obtain field units for Darcy's Law? 
1.127 x 10-3
93. Name at least four assumptions of Darcy's Law? 
Laminar flow, viscous flow, incompressible flow, steady state, homogeneous formation, 100% saturation with flowing fluid phase.
94. What does the term "dead oil" describe"? 
Oil with no dissolved gas
95. What are three types of non-Newtonian fluids? 
Psuedoplastic (shear thinning), dilatant (shear thickening), and Bingham plastic fluids
96. What is the term for the effect of gas slippage at low pressure and is the cause for overestimation of absolute permeability in a gas saturated core? 
Klinkenberg effect or slippage effect
97. What process is used to determine the pore size distribution in a formation sample?
Inject the sample with mercury then plot a graph of capillary pressure vs. water saturation
98. What is indicated by low pore entry pressure? 
The formation has large pores since low pressure is needed for a fluid to enter the formation
99. What does the term, Bg, represent? 
Gas formation volume factor
100. Will a SP log spike lower or higher in a reservoir containing hydrocarbons? 
Lower
101. What symbol is used to represent solution gas-oil ratio? 
Rs
102. What well log can be used to determine both the porosity and lithology of a reservoir?
Resistivity log
103. What three well logs can be combined to determine the mineral composition of a formation? 
Acoustic, neutron, and density
104. What well log is used to determine both total and effective porosity? 
Magnetic resonance imaging tool
105. What is the name given to a reservoir with no apparent outer boundary limit affecting fluid flow during a test period? 
Infinite-acting reservoir
106. What factor is a correction for the Darcy Equation that accounts for changes in pressure and fluid saturation along a fracture? 
Beta Factor
107. This term describes the movement of water upwards or gas downwards towards a decrease in pressure caused by producing hydrocarbons in a zone with no vertical permeability boundaries? 
Coning
108. This term, often used in relation to EOR flooding, describes the effect of one fluid flowing through a porous media and displacing fluid of a different viscosity? 
Fingering
109. This type of tertiary recovery method involves injecting air into the formation and igniting the oil? 
Fire Flood
110. What type of EOR method uses the flooding of the oil reservoir from the top of the reservoir or from an up dip location in order to push the oil towards a producing well?
Gas Flood
111. What is the absorption of fluids into the pores of a rock? 
Imbibition
112. This fraction of the pore space occupied by water when the hydrocarbon content is at its maximum. This level of water can only be reduced by flow of a very dry gas that evaporates the water? 
Irreducible water Saturation
113. Who was a correspondent for Petroleum Week and the founder of Petroleum Intelligence Weekly? 
Wanda Jablonski
114. In 1960 who became the new chairmen of the Standard Oil of New Jersey? 
Monroe Rathbone
115. On what date did shell offer an olive branch by raising its oil prices by two to four cents?
September 8, 1960
116. OPECS five original founders accounted for what percentage of the world's oil exports?
80%
117. Which law in 1959 encouraged exploration and development of oil in the Libyan Desert?
Libyan Petroleum Law of 1955
118. In what year did Wanda Jablonski first publish Petroleum Intelligence Weekly? 
1963
119. According to Yergin, who worked as a superintendent of a school system in New Orleans and single headedly started the oil industry? 
George Bissell
120. Which Yale professor first analysed Rock Oil for its properties as an illuminator in a paper dated April 16, 1855? 
Dr. Benjamin Silliman Jr.
121. What was the name of the company that George Bissell founded for the exploration and refining of petroleum into kerosene? 
Pennsylvanian Rock Oil Company
122. In his own mind this person claimed "to have bored the first well that ever was bored for Petroleum in America? 
Colonel" Edwin L. Drake
123. In February 1865 John D. Rockefeller bought out this man, his partner of a successful oil refinery in Cleveland, Ohio, for $72,000. Name this man 
Maurice Clark
124. What is the term used to describe a high quality low sulphur oil? 
Sweet
125. In what year did Libya become the 6th largest exporter of oil in the world? 
1965
126. In the United States what organization managed and restricted the production of oil in Texas? 
The Texas Railroad Commission
127. Who originally created the Iraq Oil Company? 
Calouste Gulbenkian
128. What amendment to the 1955 trade act gave the president the ability to restrict oil imports? 
National Security Amendment
129. What was the average price of oil at the well head in the United States in 1968? 
$2.94
130. The second half of the 20th century was referred to as what? 
The Age of the Hydrocarbon Man
131. In 1957 England's parliament passed what act that favoured the use of oil? 
Clean Air Act
132. In 1971, oil and natural gas provided what fraction of the total worlds energy? 
2/3
133. In the 1950's three oil companies including Continental, Marathon and Amerada went to Libya and formed a coalition know as what? 
Oasis Group
134. In what year did the Supreme Court finally order the Standard Oil Company to dissolve due to the Sherman Act? 
May, 1911
135. In the dismantling of Standard Oil how many smaller companies did they divide up into? 
7
136. Which of the seven-subset companies that Standard Oil broke up into retained the most power and what is the company name today? 
Standard Oil of New Jersey
137. Who was the man that revolutionized the Petroleum Industry by breaking down large hydrocarbons with thermal cracking? 
William Burton
138. Which company emerged from the Samuel's Syndicate in 1897? 
Shell Transport and Trading Company
139. What is the name of the man that was responsible for the survival of Royal Dutch in 1900? 
Jean Baptiste August Kessler
140. Who took over as the "interim manager" for Royal Dutch in December 1900 and retained that position for 35 years? 
Henri Deterding
141. In December 1901 which company did the Shell Group merge with (to form British Dutch)? 
Royal Dutch
142. In what year did the Shell Transport Royal Dutch Petroleum Company, "British Dutch", draft an agreement with the Rothschilds? 
June 1902
143. In November of 1902 who was it that obtained the great honour of Lord Mayor of London? 
Marcus Samuel
144. When the Asiatic Petroleum Company was constructed in July 1903, who was is that took over as chairman for the company? 
Marcus Samuel
145. Who was the Dutch Engineer who had rescued Royal Dutch with new discoveries in Sumatra? 
Hugo Loudon
146. Who was the man that first organized Shell's storage tanks in the Far East in the early 1890's and also helped set up productions in Borneo in the late 1890's? 
Mark Abrahams
147. What is the name of the group in Russia that tried to prevent revolution by means of killing Christian Armenians? 
Moslem Tartars
148. What was the event that sparked the revolution of 1905 in Russia that nearly collapsed the Russian oil industry? 
Bloody Sunday December 1904
149. In what year did the Rothschilds and Royal Dutch/Shell merge together? 
1912
150. In what year did the reign of General Gomez come to an end in Venezuela? 
1935
151. In the 1930s oil was this percent of Venezuela's export value 
90%
152. Who was President of Pantepec Oil Company in 1943? 
William F. Buckley
153. What organization ruled Venezuela in the mid-1940s? 
Accion Democratica
154. What does Aminoil stand for? 
American Independent Oil Company
155. What price did J. Paul Getty pay for his part in Saudi Arabia? 
9.5 million US dollars
156. This is the name for the disputed border between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait 
The Neutral Zone
157. In 1957 Fortune magazine said this man was the richest person in America 
J. Paul Getty
158. In this year Saudi Arabia finally received a "fifty-fifty" deal with Aramco 
1950
159. In what year did executive from five oil companies meet at Achnacarry Castle in Scotland to draft the 'Pool Association' or 'As-Is' agreement? 
1928
160. Who became the chairman of Anglo-Persian in 1927? 
Sir John Cadman
161. In 1930, what companies were known as the 'Big Three'? 
Jersey (Standard Oil of New Jersey), Shell, and Anglo-Persian
162. The 'As-Is' agreement was modified several times to attempt to improve effectiveness. One particular revision was especially effective in bringing stability to the industry. What is the name given to a looser cooperation agreement, devised in 1934, that was a revision of the 'As-Is' agreement? 
Draft Memorandum of Principles
163. What year did CUSS 1 drill the first deep sea hole in 3,800 meters of water off Guadalupe Island, Mexico? 
April 1961
164. Which oil company began in 1929 after a merger between a Rocky mountain company which was part of Standard oil and an Oklahoma based crude producer? 
Continental Oil Company
165. Out of the original 5 Billion dollars that Exxon was supposed to pay for the Exxon Valdez oil spill, how much did Exxon settle to pay? 
507.5 million
166. What year did the United States reach peak oil production of 11.3 million barrels a day? 
1970
167. On December 26, 1967 the largest oil field in North America was discovered. What is the name of this field? 
Prudhoe Bay, Alaska
168. Who built Occidental Oil Company into one of the world's great energy companies in late 1960s? 
Dr. Armand Hammer
169. What was the nick name the chairman of Occidental, Armand Hammer? 
The Doctor
170. Which USA president gave the first ever Presidential address on energy in April of 1973? 
Nixon
171. What decade marked the end of the 20-year surplus of oil? 
1970s
172. What caused the Texas Railroad Commission to allow all out production at 100 percent of capacity of oil fields in 1971? 
Diminishing surplus of oil and increasing demand for oil in the United States.
173. During what decade did free world oil demand grow by 21 million barrels per day? 
1960 - 1970
174. What region supplied 2/3 of the world's oil in 1960-1970? 
Middle East
175. What action was taken in 1969 in response to an offshore oil leak in Santa Barbara which expired in 2008? 
A moratorium was imposed on California offshore development.
176. In the late 1930's what percentage of oil consumed in Japan was produced by the Japanese? 
7%
177. In the late 1930's what percentage of oil was imported by the Japanese from America? 
80%
178. Who was the Oil Administrator that met with Henri Deterding and Walter Teagle in Washington, D.C. in August 1934? 
Harold Ickes
179. What law was created by the Japanese government that would last seven years and was aimed at producing synthetic fuels made out of coal that would supply half of the oil that the country consumed? 
Synthetic Oil Industry Law
180. On July 2, 1940 Franklin Roosevelt signed which law that gave the president the ability to control the flow of exports including oil? 
National Defence Act
181. in July 1040, a ban was placed by the USA on oil exports to the Japanese but was not a complete ban on oil exports. This ban only prohibited the exportation of what octane or higher of fuel? 
87 Octane
182. Who was the Japanese General who was the mastermind behind Pearl Harbour? 
Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto
183. Who became prime minister of Japan on October 18 1942? 
Hideki Tojo
184. What vehicle was designed by the Germans and was known as the people’s car? 
Volkswagen
185. What style of faulting may occur when the Horizontal Stress in one direction is greater than the horizontal stress in the perpendicular direction? 
Strike-Slip faulting
186. Name a source of vertical stress 
Overburden
187. Name a source of horizontal stress 
Poisson's Ratio Effect or Tectonic Stresses
188. Name 3 of the 4 types of clastic fragments in limestone 
Oolites, Intraclasts, Fossils, and Pellets
189. What type of sandstone is characterized by being impure or dirty? 
Graywacke
190. A sandstone containing highly viscous, asphalt-like hydrocarbon compounds is referred to as what? 
A tar Sand
191. A non-clastic limestone, characterized by loosely consolidated, earthy calcium carbonate and clay containing deposits of shell 
A marl or marlstone
192. Volcanic tuff altered to montmorillonite is called what? 
Bentonite
193. What are 3 of the different dolomitization models? 
Evaporative, Seepage Reflux, MixingZone, Burial, Seawater
194. The process of breaking down chemical bonds in kerogen and clays within shale to generate liquid hydrocarbons 
Catagenesis
195. Algal and amorphous kerogen highly likely to generate oil is what type? 
Type I
196. Mixed terrestrial and marine source material that can generate waxy oil is what type?
Type II
197. Woody terrestrial source material that typically generates gas is what type of kerogen? 
Type III
198. Kerogen containing mostly decomposed organic matter also known as charcoal is what type of kerogen? 
Type IV
199. Volcanic tuff altered to montmorillonite is called what? 
Bentonite
200. Sandstone containing highly viscous, asphalt-like hydrocarbon compounds is referred to as what? 
Tar Sand
201. What was the first major contribution of geology to oil exploration? 
The Anticline Theory
202. A major oil discovery in what state confirmed the anticline theory? 
Oklahoma
203. In what year was a major oil discovery made that confirmed the anticline theory? 
1913
204. A study by the US Bureau of Mines around 1917 concluded that this method would increase oil recovery 
Natural Gas Injection
205. What group did a study that marked the first intuition into secondary recovery of oil? 
US Bureau of Mines
206. What theory did the Soviet school of geology supported claiming oil could be made without the help of living organisms? 
Abyssal Abiogenic (or Abiotic) Theory
207. The Abyssal Abiogenic (or Abiotic) Theory led to discoveries of oil where? 
In Nonsedimentary, crystalline basement rock scores of hydrocarbons
208. In terms of oil formation, what is the oldest geological era? 
Jurassic
209. What is the equation for the Traction Vector? 
stress tensor times unit normal vector
210. what gives the state of stress at any point? 
Stress Tensor
211. Three mutually perpendicular normal stresses in a coordinate system where all shear stresses vanish defines what? 
The Principal Stress
212. What constant is used to directly relate strain and stress? 
Young's Modulus or Elastic Modulus or Tension Modulus
213. What is a mathematical description of continuous physical phenomenon in which a dependent variable is a function of more than one independent variable? 
Partial Differential Equation
214. This numerical model requires only discretization of the boundary? 
Boundary Element Method
215. This numerical model has a solution procedure based on numerical approximation of the governing equations 
Finite Difference Method
216. This numerical model has a solution procedure that exploits approximations to the connectivity of the elements and to the continuity of stress and displacements between the elements 
Finite Element Method
217. Name two methods to obtain Ku+f=0 from an approximate solution 
Galerkin, Variational Principles (Raleigh-Ritz)
218. What substitutions are made for the method of weighted residuals? 
u=ΣNaua and v=Σwbδub.
219. What substitution is made in Galerkin's Method? 
wb = Nb
220. Integral statement of a PDE multiplied by a weighting function and equated to 0  
Weak Form
221. A PDE that describes a physical process and has BC's that are essential and/or natural  
Strong Form.
222. As opposed to the standard discrete system, the more general Finite Element method utilizes what? 
Approximations
223. Euler's Equations are equivalent to what? 
The strong form.
224. What is a graph which plots the percentage (by volume) of a given grade of crude which boils off as a function of temperature? 
Distillation curve
225. In the petroleum coking process, what is the length of time it takes to heat the coke drum sufficiently to safely introduce hot hydrocarbons, transform the raw material into solid petroleum coke, and remove or cut the solid coke from the drum before repeating the process? 
Drum cycle
226. Which type of contract is a Contract by which the production of a field is shared between the host government and the oil company operating the field? 
Production sharing agreement
227. Who are the CEOs of Schlumberger, Halliburton, Baker, and Weatherford? 
Paal Kibsgaard, Jeff Miller, Lorenzo Simonelli and Mark McCollum
228. What country in Europe has the most oil reserves excluding Russia? 
Norway. Then UK, Denmark, Romania, Italy.
229. Where is Statoil headquartered? 
Stavanger, Norway
230. Headquartered in Rome, Italy, what is the largest Italian oil and gas company? 
ENI S.p.A
231. Who are the CEOs of ENI and Statoil? 
Claudio Descalzi and Eldar Saetre
232. What is the largest offshore gas platform in the world? 
Troll A. In Norwegian waters, North Sea and operated by Statoil.
233. What field has been injecting CO2 for storage since 1996? 
Sleipner West, Norway. Operated by Statoil, stores about 1 million tonnes per year.
234. What is the name of the largest natural gas company in the world? 
Gazprom (33.1 TCF)
235. Who was SPE's first President? 
John Hammond
236. what year did SPE become a professional society? 
1957
237. Who was the first woman president of SPE? 
DeAnn Craig
238. In what year was the first woman president of SPE in office? 
1998
239. Refineries with cracking units are commonly referred to as what? 
High-Conversion.
240. Up to what depth of water are jack up rigs able to drill in? 
400 ft (120 m) +- 50
241. What are the 3 types of platform rigs? 
Steel-Jacket platform, caisson type, concrete gravity type
242. Platform rigs situated in deep waters need to be able to yield to the movement of water and wind. What two types of systems accommodate these movements? 
Guyed-tower rigs and tension-leg rigs
243. To what approximate depth of water are submersible rigs able to drill in? 
175 ft (just over 50 m) +- 25
244. What are 2 types of submersible rigs? 
Posted barge submersible, Bottle-type submersible, Arctic submersible
245. What term is used to refer to the use of thrusters to keep a semisubmersible rig over the drill hole? 
Dynamic Positioning
246. When the wellhead and blowout preventers are mounted on the seafloor what connects the blowout preventer to the rig? 
Marine Riser
247. To what depth of water is a semisubmersible rig capable of drilling in? 
~7500 ft ~(2200 m)
248. What types of rigs usually utilize a subsea blowout control system? 
Drilling ships and semisubmersibles
249. What is the most poisonous gas encountered in drilling operations 
H2S (Hydrogen Sulphide)
250. What rig instrument helps the driller monitor the amount of mud being displaced by the tubular or wire rope being run inn and pulled out of the hole? 
Trip Tank Volume Indicator
251. What shows the revolutions per minute, or RPM, of the rotary table or top drive unit? 
Rotary Tachometer
252. What shows the number of times one mud pump piston moves per minute? 
Pump Rate Gauge
253. What is the term given to a drilling rig's main power source? 
Prime Mover
254. What do drillers use as a relative indicator of how much drilling fluid is returning at the flow line? 
Mud Return Flow-Rate Indicator
255. Saturated hydrocarbons, with a general formula CnH2n+2 are known as what? 
Paraffins or alkanes
256. What are the three subgroups of hydrocarbons? 
Paraffins/alkanes, Naphthenes/cycloalkanes, and aromatic compounds
257. What is the term for disseminated organic matter in sediments that is insoluble in normal petroleum solvents? 
Kerogen
258. With a higher proportion of hydrogen relative to oxygen than other types and a Hydrogen: Carbon ratio of about 1.65, name the type of kerogen that has lipids as the dominant compounds, with derivate of waxes, fats, and oils? 
Type I
259. The Kimmeridge clay of the North Sea and the Tannezuft shale of Algeria are of this type. The original organic matter of this kerogen consisted of algal detritus, but also contained material derived from zooplankton and phytoplankton 
Type II
260. By the 1920's the oil industry was dominated by seven major companies, termed the "seven sisters" by Enrico Mattei. What were the names of the European companies included in this group 
Anglo Persian Oil Company, Royal Dutch Shell, SOCONY, Standard Oil of New Jersey, SOCAL, Texaco and Gulf Oil Company
261. Gas hydrates are compounds of frozen water that contain gas molecules. What is the term for the molecules themselves? 
Clathrates
262. A mixture of hydrocarbons that existed in the liquid phase in natural underground reservoirs and remain liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface separating facilities is known as what? 
Crude oil
263. In the study of petroleum fluids, which bonds are we most concerned with, covalent or ionic? 
Covalent
264. What is regarded as the normal valence angle of carbon? 
109.5 degrees
265. Which hydrocarbon group is considered the most stable? 
Alkanes
266. What type of compound is benzene? 
Aromatic
267. This compound forms the largest group of nonhydrocarbons in petroleum.
Sulphur compounds
269. What point on a phase diagram represents the pressure and temperature at which solid, liquid, and gas coexist under equilibrium conditions? 
The triple point, equilibrium point
270. Why are alkanes the main constituents of petroleum gas, as opposed to other hydrocarbons? 
Because they are the simplest molecules, making them the most stable
271. Name two of the three performance attributes for evaluation of an underground storage reservoir 
Verification of inventory, assurance of deliverability, containment against migration. 
272. In the field of production, what does the acronym UGS stand for? 
Underground gas storage.
273. What does the equation Q = PI(Pr - Pwf)? 
Inflow performance relationship (IPR)
274. The measurement of the attractive forces of a mud while at rest or under static conditions is known as? 
Gel Strength
275. These machines mechanically remove the sand/silt sized particles from the mud?
Desander/Desilter
276. The build-up of solids along the face of the wellbore while drilling, due to loss of fluids is called what? 
Mud Cake (filter cake)
277. The major difference between the Bingham model and Newtonian fluids is? 
Bingham model has a yield point
278. If a gel strength increases slowly over time what is its classification? 
Weak or Fragile
279. What type of gel strength is most desirable for drilling? 
Fragile
280. What two gasses can cause changes in a muds pH? 
CO2 and H2S
281. To avoid corrosion in the borehole what type of pH level is desirable? 
Low pH
282. What is the first casing to be used while drilling? 
Conductor Casing
283. Resources that will be potentially recoverable, as of a given date, by projects not currently considered commercially economic due to any number of circumstances  
Contingent Resources
284. Resources which are estimated, as of a given date, to be potentially recoverable from undiscovered accumulations 
Prospective Resources
285. A project associated with a potential accumulation that is sufficiently well defined to represent a viable drilling target 
Prospect
286. A project associated with a potential accumulation that is currently poorly defined and requires more data acquisition and/or evaluation 
Lead
287. A project associated with a prospective trend of potential prospects, but which requires more data acquisition and/or evaluation in order to define specific leads or prospects 
Play
288. Expected reserves to be recovered from existing wells and facilities 
Developed Reserves
289. Reserves expected to be recovered through future investments 
Undeveloped Reserves
290. Reserves are expected to be recovered from zones in existing wells, which will require additional completion work or future re-completion prior to the start of production 
Behind-Pipe Reserves
291. A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well 
Dry Hole
292. Shale, siltstone and marl deposits highly saturated with kerogen 
Oil Shales
293. Who is the 2011 SPE President 
Alain Labastie
294. Name four SPE periodicals 
JPT; J of Canadian PT; SPE D&C; SPE Econ & Mgmt; SPE Journal; SPE Prod & Op; SPE Res Eval & Eng; SPE Projects, Facilities, & Construction; The Way Ahead.
295. How much oil is consumed globally per day? 
97 MMBBL
296. How much natural gas is consumed globally per day? 
3.2 TCF
297. Who was sometimes known as the 'energy czar' in the early 20th Century? 
Mark Requa
298. Who was known as 'the man with the sledgehammer' in 1916 Rumania? 
Colonel John Norton-Griffiths
299. Which Russian oil field was saved from Germans by the British in August 1918 which led to the fall of Germany in WWI? 
Baku
300. What was the main factor which led to the fall of Germany in WWI? 
Lack of domestic oil